ATACseq (#125)
galaxyproject/iwc: workflows/epigenetics/ATACseq/README.md

- effective_genome_size: this is used by macs2 and may be entered manually (indications are provided for heavily used genomes)

## Processing

- The workflow will remove nextera adapters and low quality bases and filter out any read smaller than 15bp.
- The filtered reads are mapped with bowtie2 allowing dovetail and fragment length up to 1kb.
- The BAM is filtered to keep only MAPQ30, concordant pairs and pairs outside of the mitochondria.
- The PCR duplicates are removed with Picard.
- The BAM is converted to BED to enable macs2 to take both pairs into account.
- The peaks are called with macs2 which at the same time generates a coverage file.
- The coverage file is converted to bigwig
- The amount of reads 500bp from summits and the total number of reads are computed if further normalization is wanted.
- Other QC are performed:
  - A histogram with fragment length is computed.
  - The evaluation of percentage of reads to chrM or MT is computed.
- A multiQC is run to have an overview of the QC.

### Warning

- The coverage output is not normalized.

> - We are aware that the fact that a common reference file is used for bowtie2 and bedtools slopbed reduces the number of reference possible. Talk to your administrator if this brakes your research.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `reference_genome` parameter value is used to select references in bowtie2 and bedtools slopbed. Only references that are present in bowtie2 **and** bedtools slopbed are selectable. If your favorite reference genome is not available ask your administrator to make sure that each bowtie2 reference has a corresponding len file for use in bedtools slopbed.
```
